# file-statistics-analyzer-cpp

# PROJECT DISCRIPTION
A C++ text file analysis tool implementing file handling, hash-based frequency mapping and string processing to display word statistics.

# FEATURES
  # Word Frequency Analysis 
   It counts how many times each word appears in the file using unordered_map.
  # Case-sensitive and Case-insensitive Analysis
   Allows users to choose whether words with different cases should be treated as same or not.
   Converts text to lowercase when case-insensitive mode is selected.
  # Displaying the word-file statistics 
   Finds total word count, longest word detection, Average word length calculation.
  # Special character handling
   Filters out special characters and punctuation to ensure accurate word analysis.

# TECHNOLIGIES USED
   Language- C++
   Concepts- File Handling
             Hashing
             Strings and character processing
             Functions and Modular programming

# TIME AND SPACE COMPLEXITY
  Time Complexity-
   O(n) where n is the number of words in the file.
  Space Complexity-
   O(n) for storing word frequencies in the unordered map, where n is the number of unique words.
   
# HOW TO RUN THE PROJECT
  1. Clone the repository
     <https://github.com/prernaharsh25-oss/file-statistics-analyzer-cpp>
  2. Compile the code

         g++ main.cpp -o analyzer
  4. Run the executable

         ./analyzer
  6. input file in the same directory

# SAMPLE OUTPUT
  Below is a sample output generated by the File Statistics Analyzer after processing a text file and user's choice
  
  1. If choice of the user is to see the frequency of some specific word
     
                                         WELCOME
                                        ----------
                            1.Search a Word 
                            2.View file statistics
                            1
                            Choose your search mode :
                            1.Case-Insensitive
                            2.Case-Sensitive
                            Enter Choice: 1
                            Enter the word you want to seacrh equity
                            Count : 15 times
 
  2.If choice of user is to see File analytics
  
                                       WELCOME
                                      ----------
                            1.Search a Word 
                            2.View file statistics
                            2
                             ---------------------
                                FILE STATISTICS
                             ----------------------
                            Total words        : 37
                            Unique words       : 19
                            Longest word       : challenges
                            Average word length: 6.21053

# FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS
 Add sentence and paragraph analysis
 
 Support multiple file formats
 
 Export statistics to a separate output file

 Add a menu-driven interface

     
     
   
 
 
   
